# PL-SQL-procedures-for-MLE
With Oracle 26ai, Multilingual Engine(MLE) allows user to run and store JavaScript directly in the Oracle AI Database. 
Using MLE enables users of the Oracle AI Database to run the following, written in JavaScript: 
• Stored procedures 
• Stored functions 
• Code in a PL/SQL package namespace 
• Anonymous, dynamic code snippets (in a way that is similar to DBMS_SQL) 
MLE is supported when connecting to the database using a dedicated server connection on Linux x86-64 or Linux for Arm (aarch64), including with server connections that have enabled a Database Resident Connection Pool (DRCP).
Note - Shared server connections cannot make use of MLE. 
• Invoking JavaScript in the Database JavaScript can be invoked through dynamic execution or through call specifications, which either reference MLE modules or inline JavaScript functions. 
• Introduction to Dynamic Execution Anonymous JavaScript code snippets can be executed via the DBMS_MLE PL/SQL package. 
• Introduction to MLE Module Calls It is possible to create JavaScript modules as schema objects that are stored persistently in the database.
• About MLE Execution Contexts An MLE execution context is a standalone, isolated runtime environment, designed to contain all runtime state associated with the execution of JavaScript code. Runtime state includes global variables as well as the state of the language environment. 
• About Restricted Execution Contexts The PURE keyword can be specified on MLE environments and JavaScript inline call specifications to create restricted JavaScript execution contexts. Parent topic: Introduction to Oracle AI Database Multilingual Engine for JavaScript JavaScript Implementation Details The MLE implementation of JavaScript is compliant with ECMAScript 2023. Adhering to the ECMA standard, the JavaScript implementation as found in MLE is consciously created as a pure implementation. Native JavaScript network and file I/O operations are not supported in the same way that they are in Node.js and Deno for security reasons. The use of network and file I/O is possible with MLE, however, you must employ PL/SQL APIs such as UTL_HTTP and UTL_FILE. The WEB API, Fetch, is not available by default in the global space but can be enabled by importing mle-js-fetch. Objects not included in the ECMA standard, including common objects used in front-end code such as the Window object, are also not available with MLE. Nevertheless, MLE does provide easy and efficient access to SQL, which is able to execute close to the data. Console output is passed to DBMS_OUTPUT by default but can be redirected and stored in a user provided CLOB if required. Users require specific privileges before they can interact with MLE. These can broadly be classified into: • Permission to use MLE and run JavaScript code • Execute dynamic JavaScript in the database 
• Create JavaScript modules and externalize them via PL/SQL code The database engine throws an error if you lack sufficient privileges required for the use of JavaScript. See also System and Object Privileges Required for Working with JavaScript in MLE for more information about privileges Parent topic: Overview of Multilingual Engine for JavaScript Invoking JavaScript in the Database JavaScript can be invoked through dynamic execution or through call specifications, which either reference MLE modules or inline JavaScript functions. 
Generally speaking, server-side JavaScript code can be invoked in two ways: 
• Dynamically via the DBMS_MLE package 
• Using PL/SQL code referencing functions exported in JavaScript modules (so-called MLE module calls) or functions defined directly in the DDL Regardless of which of the two methods is used, all JavaScript code runs in an execution context. Its purpose is to encapsulate all runtime state associated with the processing of JavaScript code. The MLE execution context corresponds to the ECMAScript execution context for JavaScript. Before you can execute any JavaScript in the database, you must ensure that MLE is not disabled for your session, PDB, or CDB. For information about how to confirm this, see MLE_PROG_LANGUAGES Initialization Parameter. In order to take full advantage of MLE, you must have necessary privileges to execute the JavaScript language, execute dynamic MLE, create MLE schema objects, and so on.
A library of simple and easy to understand PL/SQL procs that demo using Multilingual Engine (MLE) for JavaScript.
Intent to provide beginner-friendly PL/SQL procedures that demonstrate using the Multilingual Engine (MLE) for JavaScript. 
I'll focus on simple, practical examples covering dynamic execution, module-based execution, and PURE execution. Each example will include a use case that is easy to understand.
